# Project 2: Anomaly Hunter

## What does it do?

The Anomaly Hunter is a DevSecOps intelligence engine. It acts as an automated security guard that reads parsed server logs (in JSON format) and analyzes the behavior of every IP address to detect malicious activity.

Currently, it detects two primary attack vectors:

#### Brute Force Attacks: Flags any IP address that generates an excessive number of 401 Unauthorized or 403 Forbidden HTTP errors.

#### Path Traversal / Exploitation: Flags any IP address attempting to access highly sensitive server files (e.g., /etc/passwd, ../, or .env).

## Requirements & Installation

Python 3.x

No external dependencies! This script is built entirely with Python's standard library (json, logging, argparse, pathlib). No pip install is required.

Prerequisite Data: You must have the parsed JSON log file (typically result.json) generated by Project 1 (Regex Parser).

## How to Run

Navigate to the 02-Anomaly-Hunter directory.

Ensure your result.json file is in the same folder.

Run the script via the terminal:

# Run with the default target file (result.json)
python3 anomaly_hunter.py

# Or specify a custom JSON file
python3 anomaly_hunter.py -f my_custom_logs.json


###  Expected Output

When an anomaly is detected, the script will instantly trigger a formatted log to your terminal:

2026-06-25 23:58:43,818 - WARNING - Possible Brute Force! IP 10.0.0.15 had 6 failed attempts.
2026-06-25 23:58:43,818 - CRITICAL - Path traversal detected! IP 172.16.0.5 targeted /etc/passwd
2026-06-25 23:58:43,818 - CRITICAL - Path traversal detected! IP 10.10.10.99 targeted /.env

